POLICY FOR PREVENTION, PROHIBITION
AND REDRESSAL OF SEXUAL
HARASSMENT AT WORKPLACE
TRIO INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LIMITED
January 2025
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. OBJECTIVE
2. SCOPE & APPLICABILITY
3. DEFINITIONS
4. EXAMPLES OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
5. RESPONSE TO POSSIBLE INCIDENTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
6. RECORD KEEPING & REPORTING
7. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
8. REDRESSAL OF COMPLAINTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
9. APPENDIX-1 COMPLAINT FORMAT
10. APPENDIX-2 MEMBERS OF SH-IC
Review and Version:
Version Description of Change Date Prepared/Updated By Approved By
1.0 Policy Implementation 01-Jan-2026 HR MD & CEO

-- 1 of 11 --

1. OBJECTIVE
TRIO INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LIMITED is an equal opportunity employer committed to fostering
a safe, inclusive, and respectful workplace. The Hospital strives to ensure that all employees work
in an environment free from prejudice, gender bias, and sexual harassment.
Sexual harassment, whether occurring at the workplace or in connection with work-related
activities outside the office, is a serious offence and will not be tolerated.
This policy is aligned with the Supreme Court directives and the provisions of the Sexual
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH
Act”).
Objectives include:
• To clearly define the Company’s approach to preventing and addressing sexual
harassment.
• To ensure complaints are addressed promptly, sensitively, and confidentially.
• To create a professional and trustworthy workplace for all employees.
• To comply with the applicable legal framework.
2. SCOPE & APPLICABILITY
This policy applies to all employees of TRIO INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LIMITED, including
permanent, probationary, temporary, part-time, trainees, interns, consultants, and contractors. It
is deemed to be incorporated into the terms and conditions of service of all employees and is
effective immediately.
3. DEFINITIONS
Includes definitions of Personnel, Associate, Workplace, Sexual Harassment, Supervisory
Authority, Conflict of Interest, Position of Influence, Aggrieved Individual, Complainant,
Respondent, and Management as outlined under the POSH Act, 2013 and the company's internal
definitions.
a. Personnel:
A person employed with the Company for any work on regular, temporary, ad hoc, or daily wages,
either directly or through an agent, including a contractor, with or, without the knowledge of
principal employer (TRIO INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LIMITED), whether for remuneration or not,
or working on a voluntary basis or otherwise, whether the terms of employment are expressed or
implied, probationer, trainee, apprentice, or intern.

-- 2 of 11 --

b. Associate:
For this policy associate would include but not be limited to any personnel of client, customer or
vendor and visitor.
c. Workplace:
• Any job site of Company.
• Any place visited by the Personnel of the Company, arising out of or during employment such
as business-related travel, Company sponsored team outings, team offsite meetings etc.,
including transportation provided by the Company for undertaking such journey.
• Any location, including cyber locations like social media, communication platforms like
WhatsApp, Snapchat etc., conference call platforms like Zoom, Skype, etc.
• Any other location, physical or virtual, visited by the personnel of the Company with any
personnel or associate of the Company.
d. Supervisory Authority:
Any personnel manager or any of their manager's next level managers in the management chain
shall be deemed to have supervisory authority over those personnel for the purpose of this Policy.
e. Conflict of Interest:
• Personnel are expected to use their best judgment to act, always and in all ways, in the best
interests of the Company. A "conflict of interest" exists when the personal interest of a
personnel interferes with the interests of the Company.
• A conflict of interest may also arise from a personnel's personal relationship with another
personnel/associate, if such relationship impairs either’s objective business judgment. A
conflict-of- interest situation could also be contextual.
f. Position of Influence:
As used in this Policy, "Position of Influence" means personnel who are in such a position at the
Company as to exercise influence over other personnel / associates either by virtue of the working
contextual relationships or by virtue of their position such as reporting requirements or evaluation
of other personnel/associates.
g. Aggrieved Individual:
Means in relation to a workplace, a person, whether employed or not, who alleges to have been
subject to any act of sexual harassment by the respondent and includes contractual, temporary
employees and visitors
h. Complainant:
Is any aggrieved individual (including a representative as more fully described under Rule 6 of the
said Rules, if the aggrieved individual is unable to make a complaint on account of his/her physical
or mental incapacity or death or otherwise) who makes a complaint alleging Sexual Harassment
under this Policy

-- 3 of 11 --

i. Respondent:
Means a person against whom a complaint of alleging sexual harassment has been made under
this policy
j. Management:
As used in this Policy, the Management will consist of the CEO and any such member of the
executive committee as may be included from time to time.
4. EXAMPLES OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Examples include but are not limited to: unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors,
verbal or non-verbal conduct of a sexual nature, displaying sexually explicit materials, lewd
comments, inappropriate jokes, stalking, staring, or any behavior that creates a hostile work
environment.
a. When such conduct has the purpose or effect of creating a sexually offensive, hostile, or
intimidating work environment that interferes with an individual's ability to perform the job.
b. if submission to or rejection of such conduct is the basis for employment decisions like
promotion, recruitment, transfer, appraisal etc. regarding a Personnel
This policy is gender agnostic, and sexual harassment will include within its scope, sexual
harassment of any personnel / associate by any personnel / associate irrespective of the gender
of the aggrieved person and the respondent.
Sexual harassment may be overt or subtle. It may be intentional or unintentional.
Some behavior that may be acceptable in a social setting may not be appropriate in the
workplace or with personnel / associate of the Company.
Illustrative Examples of Sexual Harassment:
Whether or not an act constitutes sexual harassment will depend on the specific facts and context.
However, the following are indicative (but not exhaustive) examples of conduct that may be
considered as sexual harassment:
1. Unwelcome sexual advances or propositions
2. Pestering for dates or making repeated unwelcome sexual invitations
3. Offering or implying employment benefits in exchange for sexual favours
4. Leering or making inappropriate facial expressions
5. Making sexually suggestive gestures
6. Displaying sexually explicit objects, pictures, calendars, posters, cartoons, or screensavers

-- 4 of 11 --

7. Derogatory or demeaning comments about a person’s body, dress, or physical appearance
8. Making or sharing sexually suggestive jokes, slurs, or innuendo
9. Circulating sexually explicit messages, letters, or notes in hard copy or electronically
10. Unwelcome physical contact such as touching, patting, pinching, brushing, or
impeding/blocking movement
11. Being forcibly kissed or hugged
12. Exposure of private parts or repeated staring that causes discomfort
13. Retaliation or threats following rejection of sexual advances or after raising a complaint
14. Teasing or mocking in a sexually suggestive manner
15. Sexually tinted remarks, catcalling, whistling, or obscene jokes
16. Innuendos or taunts about body type, skin tone, or physical features
17. Viewing, sharing, or displaying pornographic or other offensive material
18. Forcing or coercing someone to go on dates
19. Assault, molestation, or forcible physical touch
20. Implicit or explicit suggestion that sexual favours will impact employment decisions (e.g.
hiring, increments, promotion, transfers)
21. Downloading, displaying, or distributing sexually suggestive material from the Internet or
any other source in the workplace
Explanation: In assessing whether a particular behavior amounts to sexual harassment, the
reasonable perception of the aggrieved person will be considered. The focus shall remain on
whether the conduct was unwelcome, regardless of the intent of the respondent.
5. RESPONSE TO POSSIBLE INCIDENTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
A. Responsibilities of Personnel
All employees, regardless of their role or designation, share the responsibility to maintain a
workplace free from harassment. The following responsibilities apply to all personnel:
1. Maintain Respectful Conduct
All personnel must avoid conduct that could be perceived as offensive, inappropriate, or
harassing in any form.
2. Addressing Inappropriate Behavior
If an individual experiences or observes harassment, they may choose to inform the offender
that their behavior is unwelcome and request that it stop.
3. Reporting a Complaint
o The aggrieved individual must report the incident in writing, confidentially, to the
Internal Committee (IC), preferably within 90 days of the occurrence of the last
incident.
o Refer to Appendix 1 for the Confidential Complaint Format.

-- 5 of 11 --

4. Communication of Complaint
o Complaints may be sent to the email address of any IC member listed in Appendix 2.
5. If the aggrieved individual does not wish to file the complaint with IC for some reason, they
can send the complaint directly to the external member of the IC to Kavita at
thewayforward@kavitarathod.com
6. Support from IC Members
The aggrieved individual may approach any IC member for support, guidance, or clarification
at any time during the process.
B. Responsibilities of the Company
1. Prompt Investigation
The Company shall initiate a prompt, fair, and confidential investigation upon receiving any
complaint of sexual harassment.
2. Internal Committee
The IC will be constituted and empowered to:
o Ensure that complaints are addressed fairly, sensitively, and confidentially.
o Submit recommendations to Management for appropriate action.
o Periodically review trends and types of complaints and suggest preventive measures.
o Conduct awareness programs and circulate the policy at regular intervals.
3. Role of Management
The Management will:
o Review findings and recommendations submitted by the IC.
o Ensure timely action is taken by HR as per the IC’s recommendations.
4. Disciplinary Action
Based on the IC’s findings, the Company may take one or more of the following actions:
o Written warning or reprimand
o Reassignment or demotion
o Withholding of increment or promotion
o Payment of compensation to the aggrieved individual
o Termination of employment
o Mandatory counselling or community service
5. Protection Against Retaliation
o The Company is committed to protecting individuals from retaliation for reporting
harassment in good faith.
o Retaliation complaints must be reported immediately to a supervisor or HR.
o Reasonable performance feedback, task assignments, or reviews by a supervisor do
not constitute retaliation if they are within professional norms.
6. False or Malicious Complaints
o If any complaint is found to be intentionally false, malicious, or supported with forged
evidence, it will be treated as misconduct and may lead to disciplinary action against
the complainant.
o However, lack of evidence alone does not make a complaint false or malicious.

-- 6 of 11 --

7. Confidentiality
o All proceedings, including identities of the complainant, respondent, and witnesses,
shall be kept strictly confidential.
o Disclosure of such information to unauthorized parties shall result in disciplinary
action.
8. Awareness and Training
o The Company shall conduct periodic POSH awareness programs for all employees.
o Special orientation programs and legal updates shall be provided to IC members on a
regular basis.
6. RECORD KEEPING & REPORTING
TRIO INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LIMITED shall maintain confidential records of all complaints
received, inquiries conducted, evidence presented, findings, and actions taken by the Internal
Committee for a minimum period of three (3) years or as otherwise required under law.
In compliance with Rule 14 of the POSH Rules, the Internal Committee shall submit an Annual
Report to the employer and the District Officer each calendar year, detailing:
• Number of complaints received,
• Number of complaints resolved,
• Number of pending cases,
• Nature of action taken, and
• Details of awareness programs conducted.
7. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
This policy may be amended, modified, withdrawn, or replaced, in whole or in part, at the sole
discretion of TRIO INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LIMITED, provided such changes remain in
compliance with the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention,
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and any other applicable laws.
All employees shall be duly informed of any changes through appropriate official communication
channels.
8. REDRESSAL OF COMPLAINTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Any aggrieved individual may file a complaint of sexual harassment in writing within 90 days from
the date of the last alleged incident. Complaints may be submitted in any written form, though
using the prescribed format (Appendix 1) is recommended for clarity and completeness. In cases

-- 7 of 11 --

where the complainant is unable to make a written complaint, the Internal Committee (IC) shall
provide necessary assistance.
The Internal Committee will:
• Acknowledge the complaint within 7 working days
• Conduct the inquiry in accordance with the principles of natural justice
• Complete the inquiry process within 90 days from receipt of the complaint
• Submit a reasoned recommendation to the Management within 10 days of completion
• Maintain strict confidentiality during the entire process
The Management shall act on the recommendation within 60 days. The complainant and the
respondent both have the right to appeal the decision within 90 days, as per Section 18 of the
POSH Act.
TRIO INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LIMITED is committed to ensuring that all complaints of sexual
harassment are addressed in a fair, sensitive, expeditious, and confidential manner, in line with
the principles laid down under the POSH Act, 2013.
A. Complaint Handling Process
1. Filing a Complaint
o The complaint must be submitted in writing, preferably using the prescribed
format (Appendix 1) for ease of documentation and completeness.
o It should include a detailed description of the incident(s), names and contact
details of witnesses (if any), and any supporting documents or evidence.
2. Acknowledgement by Internal Committee (IC)
o The IC will acknowledge receipt of the complaint within 7 working days.
3. Initial Meeting with Complainant
o The IC will inform the complainant about the IC members and arrange a meeting
within 7 working days to gather further information and ensure proper
documentation.
4. Request for Interim Relief
o The IC will check whether the complainant seeks any interim relief such as:
▪ Leave
▪ Work from home
▪ Change of reporting structure
▪ Change of workplace or team
5. Recommendation of Interim Measures (if requested)
At the written request of the complainant, the IC may recommend interim measures to
HR, including:

-- 8 of 11 --

o Transfer of the complainant to another team or workplace
o Restriction on the respondent from reporting on the complainant’s performance
o Grant of paid leave (up to 3 months in addition to entitled leave)
o Any other relief to ensure a fair inquiry process
6. Forwarding Complaint to Respondent
o Within 7 working days of receiving the complaint, the IC will share a copy with the
respondent, who must submit a written response within 10 working days.
7. Conciliation Option (Optional)
o At the written request of the complainant, the IC may facilitate a conciliation
process (prior to formal inquiry), provided no monetary settlement is involved.
o If a settlement is reached, the complaint is considered closed and no further
inquiry is initiated.
8. Absence of Parties in Inquiry
o If either party fails to appear for 3 consecutive hearings without valid reason, the
IC shall issue a 15-day notice before deciding to:
▪ Close the inquiry, or
▪ Proceed ex-parte
9. Fair Inquiry Process
o Both parties will be provided a full and fair opportunity to be heard.
o The IC shall conduct the inquiry in line with principles of natural justice.
10. Completion Timeline
o The IC must complete the inquiry within 90 working days from the receipt of
complaint.
11. Findings and Reporting
o The IC shall share its findings with both complainant and respondent within 10
working days after completing the inquiry.
o A final investigation report shall be submitted to the Management within another
10 working days.
B. Disciplinary Actions
If the complaint is upheld after inquiry, the Internal Committee (IC) may recommend disciplinary
action against the respondent, which may include one or more of the following measures,
depending on the severity of the misconduct:
1. Issuance of a written apology
2. Formal warning or reprimand
3. Censure or adverse entry in service records
4. Withholding or cancellation of promotion
5. Withholding of salary increment or performance bonus

-- 9 of 11 --

6. Suspension or termination of employment
7. Mandatory attendance in counselling or behavioral correction programs
8. Assignment of community service or any other corrective action deemed appropriate by
the IC
These actions are intended to ensure accountability and uphold a safe and respectful work
environment.
C. Compensation to Complainant
If the IC determines that the complainant has suffered emotional distress, reputational harm, or
career impact, it may recommend monetary compensation, subject to legal provisions.
D. False or Malicious Complaints
• If the IC concludes that the complaint was intentionally false or malicious, or supported
by forged evidence, it may recommend treating the complainant’s conduct as
misconduct, and initiate disciplinary action as appropriate.
• However, a complaint not supported by sufficient evidence shall not be deemed false
solely on that basis.
E. Final Implementation & Confidentiality
• Once the IC’s report is reviewed by Management, appropriate actions will be implemented
by HR.
• The contents of the complaint, identity of parties, witness details, conciliation efforts, and
IC findings shall be kept strictly confidential.
• Any breach of confidentiality by any party shall result in disciplinary action.
F. Right to Appeal
• If the complainant or respondent has concerns about the inquiry process or outcome, they
may approach Management or file an appeal under Section 18 of the POSH Act within 90
days of the IC’s decision.

-- 10 of 11 --

9. APPENDIX-1 COMPLAINT FORMAT
Particulars Responses
Name and Employee Code of the person
reporting the incident
Name and Employee Code of the complainant
Name and Employee Code of the respondent
Date(s) and Description of the incident
Location of incident
List of witnesses (if any)
List of Evidence, if any (please attach wherever
possible)
Supporting documents (if any)
Signature and Date
9. APPENDIX-2 MEMBERS OF SH-IC
The IC is responsible for receiving and investigating complaints, maintaining confidentiality, and
recommending appropriate actions to management.
Sr.
No.
Name of the
Member Designation Role in IC Contact Details
1 Latasha Gupta Front Desk
Exe.
Presiding Officer
(Chairperson)
latashalaksh9724@gmail.com
+91 9321912170
2 Kinjal Waghela Accountant Internal Member
kwaghela04@gmail.com
+91 8879849674
3 Pratik Bodke Sr. Engineer Internal Member
pbodake23@gmail.com
+91 9619554656
4 Aftab Alam Jr. Engineer Internal Member
aftabkjraa@gmail.com
+91 9326579997
5 Akhilesh Tripathi Site
Supervisor Internal Member
akhileshtripathu@gmail.com
+91 7738614512
6 Kavita Rathod External
POSH Expert External Member thewayforward@kavitarathod.com
+91 9372690863

-- 11 of 11 --

